Add a blog post highlighting our July 2025 community call (#10)
scipy-india/scipy-india.github.io: blogs/community-calls/july-2025.md

# SciPy India Community Call #1 – July 2025

This blog post is our account of our first SciPy India community call held on July 26th, 2025. Here, we describe the call as it happened, including updates from the community, the speakers and their presentations, and our discussions on future plans.

## Details

- **Date**: July 26th, 2025
- **Time**: 1000 to 1300 hours IST

> - **Platform**: Jitsi Meet (online)

Author: Yes, I thought so too. Do you happen to have it by any chance? I cannot find it at the time.

> - **Platform**: Jitsi Meet (online)

Reviewer: This [link](https://meet.jit.si/moderated/7be8b752a46e8bf2d2effdc28c73a82003262ddf3cc28e51ea9585bd6dcc4c24) was the one used in our first community call: https://fossunited.org/c/scipy-india/meetup/july-2025

## Agenda

We had a packed agenda for our first community call. Here’s a brief overview of what we covered:

- Welcome and introductions
- Talk 1: [_Automating ML with PyCaret_](https://github.com/scipy-india/proposal-reviewing/issues/6) by [Manjunath Janardhan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/manjunath-janardhan-54a5537/)
- Talk 2: [\_marimo: an open-source, reactive Python notebook](https://github.com/scipy-india/proposal-reviewing/issues/10) by [Srihari Thyagarajan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/srihari-thyagarajan/)
- Breakout sessions, discussions, and networking
- Lightning talk 1: [_Introduction to Causal Machine Learning and `pgmpy`_](https://github.com/scipy-india/proposal-reviewing/issues/12) by [Mohammad Razak](https://www.linkedin.com/in/marazakw/)
- Lightning talk 2: [_Subgraph Matching: The Needle-in-a-Network Problem_](https://github.com/scipy-india/proposal-reviewing/issues/13) by [Varuni H K](https://www.linkedin.com/in/varunihk/)
- Closing remarks and next steps

## Highlights

> Manjunath Janardhan's presentation on automating machine learning with [PyCaret](https://pycaret.org/) was insightful and demonstrated practical applications of the library, and how it makes machine learning accessible to a broader audience. Building up from machine learning from first principles, he demonstrated how PyCaret abstracts away much of the complexity involved in building and deploying machine learning models, for non-experts and experts alike, whether for learning or for production. This was followed by Manjunath's live demo of PyCaret's capabilities using a sample dataset that provides diabetes-related features, showcasing how quickly one can build and evaluate multiple classification algorithms with "low code", visualise their performance, and predict outcomes on new data. Manjunath, at the time of writing, is a principal AI engineer at [msg global solutions](https://www.msg-global.com/), working on graph databases, generative AI solutions, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manjunath Janardhan's presentation on automating machine learning with [PyCaret](https://pycaret.org/) was insightful and demonstrated practical applications of the library, and how it makes machine learning accessible to a broader audience. Building up from machine learning from first principles, he demonstrated how PyCaret streamlines the typical machine learning pipeline — from data preprocessing and feature engineering to model training, evaluation, and deployment; abstracting away much of the complexity involved in building and deploying machine learning models, for non-experts and experts alike, whether for learning or for production. This was followed by Manjunath's live demo of PyCaret's capabilities using a sample dataset that provides diabetes-related features, showcasing how quickly one can build and evaluate multiple classification algorithms with "low code", visualise their performance, and predict outcomes on new data. Manjunath, at the time of writing, is a principal AI engineer at [msg global solutions](https://www.msg-global.com/), working on graph databases, generative AI solutions, and more.
```

One of my main takeaways from Manjunath's session (and one word that was etched on to my mind) was how it _streamlines_ the typical process involved in ML; felt this addition would help in this regard.

> Srihari Thyagarajan's talk on [marimo](https://marimo.io/), an open-source, reactive Python notebook, showcased an innovative notebook format that is, in marimo's words, "a next-generation reactive notebook, stored as Git-friendly, reproducible, deployable as a script, shareable as an app", that enhances the interactivity and usability of Python notebooks as compared to the standard Jupyter notebook format. We were thrilled to see the enthusiasm for marimo, especially its potential for AI-related integrations and scientific use cases, and its ability to facilitate reproducible in-browser research via WebAssembly. As Srihari mentioned, marimo is still in its early stages, and he enjoyed his time presenting to the community and getting feedback as one of its first users, an ambassador, a contributor, and an intern at the venture, working on topics such as docs-as-code, integrations, outreach, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Srihari Thyagarajan's talk on [marimo](https://marimo.io/), an open-source, reactive Python notebook, showcased an innovative notebook format that is, in marimo's words, "a next-generation reactive notebook, stored as Git-friendly, reproducible, deployable as a script, shareable as an app", that enhances the interactivity and usability of Python notebooks as compared to the standard Jupyter notebook format. We were thrilled to see the enthusiasm for marimo, especially its potential for AI-related integrations and scientific use cases, and its ability to facilitate reproducible in-browser research via WebAssembly. The discussion also highlighted exciting opportunities for community contributions and integration projects with marimo, similar to how Jupyter has fostered a thriving ecosystem of extensions and plugins. As Srihari mentioned, he enjoyed his time presenting to the community and getting feedback as an early contributor, ambassador, and intern at the venture, working on topics such as interactive docs, integrations, outreach, and more.
```

- I went through my bit of the presentation again on YT again and I'm not sure if I mentioned marimo being in its _early stages_ anywhere 🤔 (apologies if I'm missing the context). I think questions were posed on the community integration side of things more (iirc re: sphinx and others) and thought I could replace the line accordingly.
- Changed docs-as-code to interactive docs (better suits it).

Author: > * I went through my bit of the presentation again on YT again and I'm not sure if I mentioned marimo being in its _early stages_ anywhere 🤔 (apologies if I'm missing the context)

No worries, sorry for paraphrasing you this poorly – I was trying to read between the lines and thought that marimo is _relatively_ early as it's still working through things like infrastructure for plugins, customisability, theming, etc. :)

> Changed docs-as-code to interactive docs (better suits it).

That is indeed better, thanks!

<!-- FIXME: verify this -->
Varuni H K's lightning talk on subgraph matching addressed the challenges of finding smaller graphs within larger ones, a problem that is becoming increasingly important in fields such as social network analysis, bioinformatics, and recommendation systems. She introduced the concept of subgraph isomorphism and discussed various algorithms and techniques for efficient subgraph matching, including graph neural networks. Her talk generated a lively discussion among participants interested in network analyses about the potential applications of these techniques and the need for further research in this area. Varuni, at the time of writing, is a software engineer at [CouchBase](https://www.couchbase.com/), working on distributed databases and vector search.

In between the talks, discussions engaged participants on various topics, including the future of SciPy India, the licensing and governance of libraries used inscientific Python projects, questions on venture capital funding for open source projects and its implications on sustainability, and several other topics.

### Aftermath

> The community call concluded with a survey to gather feedback from attendees, and gauge if there is interest in organising such events in person at intervals throughout the year, in addition to our regular online calls, and if there is interest in hosting the next SciPy India conference in late 2025 or early 2026. We also received feedback on the content and overall format of the call, as well as constructive suggestions on topics for future calls, which we will take into consideration and incorporate into our planning for upcoming events. Many attendees expressed interest in volunteering and contributing to the community, which is heartening for us to see!

Author: Fair point. Do you have a link to the form? Happy to reword this sentence with it

> The community call concluded with a survey to gather feedback from attendees, and gauge if there is interest in organising such events in person at intervals throughout the year, in addition to our regular online calls, and if there is interest in hosting the next SciPy India conference in late 2025 or early 2026. We also received feedback on the content and overall format of the call, as well as constructive suggestions on topics for future calls, which we will take into consideration and incorporate into our planning for upcoming events. Many attendees expressed interest in volunteering and contributing to the community, which is heartening for us to see!

Author: Addressed in b745e76ca9d7330d080f1f47ef4a8b8598328929.

## Livestream

Our community call was livestreamed on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCSsohzaP4s) for those who could not attend the live session. The recording is available for viewing at your convenience.

### In a nutshell

> Thank you to everyone who participated and contributed to the success of our first community call! Especially, We thank our speakers for their presentations, and the discussions that followed. In addition, we are grateful to the [FOSS United](https://fossunited.org/) platform and its representatives for providing us with the necessary infrastructure to host our event online and manage registrations.

Author: ```suggestion
Thank you to everyone who participated and contributed to the success of our first community call! Especially, we thank our speakers for their presentations, and the discussions that followed. In addition, we are grateful to the [FOSS United](https://fossunited.org/) platform and its representatives for providing us with the necessary infrastructure to host our event online and manage registrations.
```
